# Marking

This page explains the mark scheme for assessed exercises.

<a name = "exploring-data"></a>

## Exploring data

Refers to this worksheet: [Exploring data](exploring-incomes.html). 

Some aspects of this assessment are auto-marked, others are marked by the
tutor. Where a component is automarked, the automarking appears on the tutor's
view on PsycEL; the student only sees it once the marks are released by the
School.

Where a component is tutor marked, the tutor enters their mark on the tutor
view uisng a drop-down box.

The tutor then needs to click "Submit marks".

### Mark scheme:

(a) _Mean_ (**1 mark**): Students are asked to report a mean income.  This is
    automarked by PsycEL. Any answer that rounds to the correct whole number is
    marked correct (1 mark awarded). Any other answer is incorrect (0 marks
    awarded).

(b) _Code for median calculation_ (**2 marks**): This is also
    automarked. Students are asked to enter a piece of code that calculates the
    median income. The correct code, canonically expressed, is `cpsdata %>%
    summarise(median(income))`.  Any code that evaluates to give the correct
    answer (56952) scores 2 marks.  Anything else scores 0 marks.
    
(c) _Text answer for mean versus median_ (**5 marks**): Students are asked,
"Does the mean or the median give a better indication of average salary in this
case? You need not write more than a few sentences, but you should explain your
reasoning.". Staff mark on the basis of closeness to a perfect answer, entering
their mark on PsycEL (e.g. via a dropdown box)

A perfect answer would be something along the lines of:

"The median is better, because it is less affected by the rare, very high
incomes in the distribution. A median is nearly always better in cases where
the distribution is skewed."

The tutor awards marks on the basis of accuracy and clear expression. Only a
perfect answer should score 5 marks. A competent answer scores 4 marks. An
answer that contains a conceptual error should score no more than 2 marks. Not
answering scores 0.

(d) _Uploaded graph_ (**7 marks**). Tutors mark the graph to the following
scheme (add up the points for a total):

- Something that looks like a graph has been uploaded (1 mark)

- The graph is a histogram (1 mark)

- The y-axis has a sensible label, e.g. "Number of people" (1 mark)

- The x-axis has a sensible label, e.g. "Income in US dollars" (1 mark)

- The histogram is _blue_ (1 mark)

- The _bin width_ on the x-axis looks about right; see the last graph on the
  worksheet for what it should look like - the bin width is the width of each
  bar making up the histogram (1 mark)
 
 - The background looks about right, e.g. is white rather than grey, again see
   example on worksheet (1 mark)
 
 - If the uploaded graph says "EXAMPLE PLOT", the student scores **zero** for
   the graph component of this assessment because they have lifted this graph
   off the teaching materials, rather than making it themselves.

### Final score

PsycEL calculates a final score by adding up the component scores and
expressing as a whole-number percentage (x*100/15).

### Feedback 

In addition to the per-question scores and the final score, which are provided
to the student as feedback, the tutor writes a couple of sentences in a free
text box as further feedback. At a minimum, this should correct any errors or
omissions the student has made. In addition, say something happy and nice if at
all possible!

### Gotcha!

There are separate 'Save' buttons for your marks, and for your feedback
box. You need to click **both** to ensure everything is saved.

___

#### Licence
This material is distributed under a [Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/) licence. CC-BY-SA 4.0. 

